# Homemade Serapure beads

The goal here is to create a substitute for AMPure XP that is of equal effectiveness in comparison to the commercial product but far more cost‐effective ($19/mL versus $0.46/mL). The beads can also be used for RNA extraction (Confirmed in YH’s RNA-seq experiment). The protocol is adapted from https://ethanomics.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/serapure_v2-2.pdf

## Materials

* Sera‐mag SpeedBeads (Fisher # 09‐981‐123)
* PEG-8000
* NaCl
* 0.5M EDTA, pH 7.5 (use freshly opened bottle for RNA-level beads)
* 1M Tris-HCl, pH 8.0 (use freshly opened bottle for RNA-level beads)
* Tween 20
* 2% E-gel
* E-gel 1kb+ ladder
* Nuclease-free or Ultrapure water (use freshly opened bottle for RNA-level beads)

## Steps

**The protocol below is for making 50mL ready-to-use SPRI beads. To save time and reagents, we usually make 100mL or 150mL beads at once **

1. In a 50 mL conical using sterile stock solutions, prepare TE buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM EDTA = 500 µL 1 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.5 + 100 µL 0.5 M EDTA, fill conical to 50 mL mark with dH2O).

2. Mix Sera-mag SpeedBeads well by vigorous vortex and transfer 350uL to a 1.5 mL Lo-Bind DNA tube.

3. Place SpeedBeads on magnet stand until all beads are drawn to magnet (you could also put the tube on PCR-tube rack and put a small strong magnet iron next to it).

4. Remove supernatant with P1000 and P200 pipette (use P1000 first and use P200 to remove the last drop).

5. Add 1.0 mL TE to beads, remove from magnet, mix, return to magnet.

6. Remove supernatant with P1000 and P200 pipette (use P1000 first and use P200 to remove the last drop).

7. Add 1.0 mL TE to beads, remove from magnet, mix, return to magnet.

8. Remove supernatant with P1000 and P200 pipette (use P1000 first and use P200 to remove the last drop).

9. Add 0.5 mL TE to beads and remove from magnet.  Fully resuspend and set tube in rack (i.e. not on magnet stand).

10. Add 9 g PEG-8000 to a new 50 mL, sterile conical.

11. Add 2.92 g NaCl to conical.

12. Add 500 µL 1 M Tris-HCL to conical.

13. Add 100 µL 0.5 M EDTA to conical.

14. Fill conical to ~ 49 mL using sterile ddH2O.  You can do this by eye, just go slowly.

15. Mix conical for about 3-5 minutes until PEG goes into solution (solution, upon sitting, should be clear).

16. Add 27.5 uL Tween 20 to conical and mix gently (pipette use P200 extremely slowly).

17. Add all ~0.5 mL SpeedBead (in TE solution) to conical.

18. Fill conical to 50 mL mark with ddH2O (if not already there) and gently mix 50 mL conical by inverting until brown.

## Beads test

**Perform beads test every time making the beads to avoid batch effect**

1.	Add 10uL of E-gel 1kb+ ladder (green cap) and 10uL H2O to PCR tubes (9 in total, 90uL ladder and 90uL H2O needed)

2.	Add 12uL; 16uL; 20uL; 24uL; 28uL; 36uL; 40uL; 44uL and 48uL of beads solution to each tube (ratios used: 0.6X, 0.8X, 1X, 1.2X, 1.4X, 1.8X, 2X, 2.2X, 2.4X)

3.	Perform regular SPRI beads cleanup and elute in 22uL ddH2O (Protocol is attached)

4.	Take out 20uL product and run 9 samples with original ladder on 2% E-gel.

5.	Take image for the E-gel, print the gel profile and attach it to the beads solution (Example shown below).

## Protocol for regular SPRI beads cleanup

1.	Add xx uL SPRI beads solution and mix well, wait for 5 mins.

2.	Put the tube on Mag field, wait for 5 mins or solution is clear.

3.	(On the Mag field) Remove supernates, add 200uL freshly made 80% EtOH.

4.	(On the Mag field) Remove EtOH, repeat the wash step.

5.	Remove EtOH with P200 and then remove EtOH with P20.

6.	Wait for 2-5 minutes or all of EtOH on the wall of tube to evaporation (don’t make the beads become light brown).

7.	Add 22uL ddH2O, mix well, wait for 5 minutes. Put on the Mag field and take out 20uL.
